Focalors
This article is about the Hydro Archon. For the playable character, see Furina.

Focalors was the God of Justice and the former Hydro Archon among The Seven who presided over Fontaine. She is the successor of Egeria, and was originally one of Egeria's Oceanid familiars.

As of Archon Quest Chapter IV: Act V - Masquerade of the Guilty, she was sentenced to death by the Oratrice Mecanique d'Analyse Cardinale and willingly gave up her full elemental authority to Neuvillette. This sentence exacted by the Oratrice also effectively abolished the Divine Throne of the Hydro Archon altogether, making Focalors the last Hydro Archon.

Once one with the being known as Furina, she separated her "divinity" from this singular body to exist separately as Focalors, with the remaining "humanity" made into Furina. After her death, Furina now continues to live autonomously as an ordinary human.

Profile

Appearance
Focalors is a fair-skinned woman with heterochromic eyes, her right eye being light blue and her left eye dark blue. Like Furina, her hair is of a whitish-blue tinge with light blue streaks, and is divided into two parts: a short bell-shaped bob that goes to her neck, and two longer strands of hair that go down to her waist.

Focalors wears a white dress with puffy long sleeves and gold accents, that fades to a dark shade of blue with starry details towards the hems and ends of her sleeves. The bodice of her dress is dark blue fading to white, with gold accents and trims; the center exposes portions of her chest and stomach, and is fastened by gold and blue metal details. She is barefoot, and wears a gold ankle cuff with a blue jewel on her left ankle. Her fingernails and toenails are painted with light blue nail polish.

Personality
Because Focalors and Furina are two aspects of a once singular being, their personality and interests are similar. She shares Furina's passion for drama and her fascination with grand displays of human emotion, but does not display any of Furina's emotional outbursts as those stem from her humanity that now resides entirely within Furina.

Story
History
Egeria, the previous Hydro Archon, was slain during the cataclysm,[6] and Focalors was instated in her place as the Hydro Archon sometime afterward. Focalors herself was also an Oceanid transformed into human by Egeria, who decided to be her successor when the time came. The Oceanids, including the strongest among them, Rhodeia of Loch, did not recognize Focalors as the new Hydro Archon,[7] with Idyia noting that around the same time as her ascension, the very waters of Fontaine became filled with pain and hatred.[8] This change, in addition to their discovery of what remained of their former god at the Harvisptokhm,[9] led the Oceanids to exile themselves from Fontaine and cut all ties.

Upon ascending, Focalors separated her divinity from her body and spirit; and named her human body that she left behind "Furina." Focalors saw Furina as essentially a human version of herself as well as exactly the kind of human she wished to be. Focalors kept her Gnosis in her divine half and hid inside the Oratrice Mecanique d'Analyse Cardinale, while tasking Furina with taking her place to deceive the masses in order to carry out her plan, as if her identity was revealed, her plan would fail and the prophecy would doom her people. To ensure this, Focalors placed a curse upon Furina, making her immortal as long as her divinity existed, but also preventing her from pursuing her own happiness. Furina was successful in duping the masses for 500 years, during which she used the acquired Indemnitium to forge a massive sword that she would use to kill her divinity with.

Archon Quests
The current Seven are all briefly mentioned in the Archon Quest Downtown in Chapter I: Act II - Farewell, Archaic Lord while Zhongli is inspecting the kites that represent them. Of the God of Justice's kite, he says "Justice flows across the surface of the waters."

In the Archon Quest A Toast to Victory in Chapter III: Act V - Akasha Pulses, the Kalpa Flame Rises, Nahida mentions that while Focalors doesn't directly preside over trials, she is still present and has the right to influence the final verdict. Focalors created the Oratrice Mecanique d'Analyse Cardinale, which was designed and meant to help the Iudex, Neuvillette, carry out sentences.

During Lyney's first show at the Opera Epiclese, he went to investigate the Oratrice under the guise of performing a magic trick. While in the room where the Oratrice's core was held, Lyney heard a voice, which caused him to retreat. He confessed this fact to the Traveler during his trial for murder,[10] who would later pass on the information to Neuvillette.[11] Unbeknownst to any of the parties involved, this voice was Focalors'.

Following Childe's disappearance in the Fortress of Meropide, Arlecchino decided to investigate Furina, eventually running into her by pure chance while she was trying to play with a cat, using the opportunity to attack and try to steal her Gnosis. She did not find the Gnosis on her, while Furina was left shocked and begged for mercy. Arlecchino felt a "curse" of some sort emanating from her, her genuine fear of death and eccentric behavior unfitting for an Archon. Arlecchino left without threatening any further harm, realizing that she was not Focalors and that the Gnosis was being held somewhere else.[12]

Eventually, Focalors would be put on trial for the "original sin" that the Heavenly Principles had declared on Egeria. The Traveler and Neuvillette would eventually realize that Furina was a fraud, managing to put her on trial in an attempt to make her reveal her secrets as to avoid the prophecy. Now revealing her true identity, Focalors appeared to Neuvillette and admitted to having Furina take her place as the Hydro Archon for the past 500 years in order to successfully deceive the Heavenly Principles. She then reveals her plan to end herself at the hands of the Oratrice, thus returning her elemental authority to its rightful owner, Neuvillette, both out of guilt from acquiring his stolen power, and knowing that only him at his full dragonhood and the experiences he had with the people, would be able to save them from the prophecy. Having acquired enough Indemnitium to carry out her sentence, she proceeded to execute herself. Her Gnosis was returned to Neuvillette; with his full Authority restored, he proceeded to absolve Fontanians of their sin, preventing them from dissolving, though any that dissolved prior to her sacrifice would not be returned. This self-sacrifice also shattered her Archon throne, resulting in six Archons remaining.[13]

