How to Access
Access to Fontaine is unlocked after completing the Archon Quest Prologue: Act I - The Outlander Who Caught the Wind. Teleport Waypoints in Realm of Farakhkert, Sumeru and Marcotte Station, Fontaine are also unlocked after completing the Archon Quest Prologue: Act III - Song of the Dragon and Freedom.

Description
A terrestrial sea in the center of Teyvat.
Following the direction of pure currents, crossing wilderness, the depths of the forests and vastness of the sea of sand, arriving at the origin of all the waters of the continent. At the top of the waterfall, in the depths of the capital atop the terrestrial sea... a story that has never been heard, a legend that has been forgotten, like a lost kingdom sunken beneath the waves, yearning for a bard to sing its drowned songs.
Genshin Impact Official Website
A story that has never been heard, a legend that has been forgotten, like a lost kingdom sunken beneath the waves, yearning for a bard to sing its drowned songs.
Following the direction of pure currents, crossing wilderness, the depths of the forests and vastness of the sea of sand, arriving at the origin of all the waters of the continent.
At the top of the waterfall, in the depths of the capital atop the terrestrial sea, the curtain softly rises on the start of the adventure's next chapter.
Version 4.0 Preview Page
Of the regions of Teyvat, Fontaine prides itself as the hub of culture and the arts; or in the words of Francis, a traveling merchant from the region, "true beauty and elegance." The newspaper The Steambird is the main newspaper of the Court of Fontaine; Mona is a columnist on it, suggesting that they have writers from all across Teyvat. According to the Steambird, Fontaine is located in the center of Teyvat[3] and is the source of all waters on the continent. Its entire continental plate is elevated, making it significantly higher than other nations. At the edge of Fontaine is a massive waterfall that stretches for thousands of meters.

Fontaine boasts its immersion in the development of technology, as referenced in multiple story points — such as the Mikage Furnace, designed by Fontaine engineers, including Xavier; and limited events — such as in Fabulous Fungus Frenzy, where the Wisdom Orb is a Fontaine-local-designed equipment designed to suppress specific behaviors in organisms.

Minor events that have featured Fontaine's technologic prowess include Core of the Apparatus, which features Fontainian inventions that can manufacture toys and furnishings, and Evermotion Mechanical Painting, which features mechanical gear systems.

There is a special energy system in Fontaine; however, it is mentioned to be on the verge of declining, causing many people to seek alternative sources.[4] Additionally, Santon states that the air in Fontaine is "practically toxic fumes" and that there is much less connection to nature there, though he is not necessarily referring to the entire region.[5]

According to Vasco, a diving certificate can be obtained in Fontaine, and diving itself is an important profession in the nation.

Liben had described Fontaine's locals as believing that some type of "judgment" was "soon to come," possibly in reference to the prophecy described in the Archon Quests about the nation being destroyed by rising sea levels to absolve its people of their "sin."

The Fontaine Research Institute is located in Fontaine, though its original main buildings were destroyed in an experiment conducted by Edwin Eastinghouse.

Other races also reside in Fontaine, such as the Melusine and, once upon a time, the Oceanids.

Life in Fontaine
When Liben visited Fontaine, he states that the locals are quite antsy, and they believe that some type of "judgement" is soon to come.[1] This could be related to the prophecy which states that the people of Fontaine, excluding the Hydro Archon, will eventually dissipate into water.[2] After the prophecy passed, people do not worry about it any longer and continue on with their daily lives.

Like in other nations, humans make up the majority of the population, though there are some humanoid and other races that reside in Fontaine, such as the Melusines and once, the Oceanids.

Fontaine has their own flowers, which have hidden meanings behind them; gifting a Rainbow Rose signifies attachment and romance,[3] a Romaritime Flower loyalty and unswerving oaths,[4] a Lumidouce Bell separation and a desire to return.[5] There are alternate meanings for some flowers, however these are less used and usually for special purposes.[6]

Diving is a popular activity in Fontaine, with some even using it for their daily livelihoods. Non-Vision holders have to use a large, bulky diving suit to go underwater, while Vision holders regardless of each nation can simply go in without any issue.[7]

Though the nation itself appears to be in relative calm, there are plenty of criminal activities hidden from public view; banditry by the Treasure Hoarders are a commonplace outside of the Court of Fontaine, and there are many criminal organizations, ranging from syndicates like the Borja Family to more dysfunctional groups like the Elegant Tableware Confrerie. The upper classes of Fontanian society also appear to engage in child trafficking by exploiting loopholes in the law, as shown with Lyney, Lynette and Wriothesley in their youth.[8]

In the Fortress of Meropide, the prisoners have their own set of lives as they are not under the jurisdiction of the Court of Fontaine despite being their de facto prison. The prison's inhabitants make use of the terms overworld (the surface) and underworld (the prison). As the prison has a very notorious reputation among the law-abiding, people who are sentenced there and finish their sentences are generally ostracized even after release. Wriothesley, the current Administrator, sees the prison as a land of "rebirth" and his relaxed policies, coupled with the potential ostracization upon returning to society, has resulted in some people deciding to stay even after their sentences are finished.

Cuisine
Fontaine's cuisine is usually refined and elegant. Navia enjoys making macarons and tea time appears to be fairly popular among the higher classes of society. There is a large number of foods offered, from casual options such as Fish and Chips, to lavish dishes such as Fontainian Foie Gras. Fonta is a popular drink in the nation, which is usually sweet and colorful, though attempts have been made to branch out into other flavors.

Similarly to the people of Mondstadt, Fontanians are generally not fond of spicy food.[9]

Due to how Melusines perceive differently compared to humans, their form of cuisine, similarly to the Aranara, is usually considered unfit by humans for consumption.

Music
Rock 'N' Roll music originated in Fontaine.[10]

Technology
Fontaine's people are particularly technologically savvy, although not as much as in Snezhnaya. Alain Guillotin was a pioneer of Fontaine technology in the times after the cataclysm, inventing kinetic cores, the Arkhe energy system, clockwork mechanisms (and the subsequent Clockwork Meka), and establishing the still-operational Fontaine Research Institute.[11] Like Snezhnaya, some Fontanians use guns, though not as widespread.

The Mikage Furnace was developed in Inazuma by several experts from Fontaine, one of them being Xavier. When the core went critical and threatened to leak Tatarigami energy, Xavier was able to develop a containment barrier, and later on made a device to eventually purify it.[12][13]

The Kamera originated from Fontaine.[14] There also exists a video variant, the Film Kamera.[12][15]

According to Santon, the air in Fontaine is toxic, presumably from pollution.[16]

Clockwork Meka are a series of automatons built by the people of Fontaine, which utilizes Arkhe, an energy system unique to the region which is divided into two categories; Pneuma and Ousia, while combining both results in Annihilation energy. While the Clockwork Meka can be used for menial labor and entertainment, they can also be modified for combat purposes, such as the Icewind Suite[2] and Gardemeks. Other powered Clockwork Meka include the Mekafish, meant to help maintain Fontaine's waters, though issues had arose such as them eliminating all nearby sources of life to do so. The process of making Pneumousia is unknown, though Neuvillette is states that he has full control over it after regaining his powers.

The other energy source used was Indemnitium. It is generated from the process of "judgment" by the Oratrice Mecanique d'Analyse Cardinale, a machine created by Focalors that "harvests the people's belief in justice" and converts it into energy.[2] According to Focalors, the amount of Indemenitium the Oratrice stored would be enough to power Fontaine for millennia were it not used for her own execution.

Designs, Motifs, and Symbols
The overall shape of Fontaine Character Cards is a large circle with a darker ridge pattern covering the circle's inner edge. To either side of the circle's center are circles with symbols nestled in the troughs of the ridges, presumably. At the top of each Character Card is the character's Vision showing their Arkhe attribute: either Pneuma or Ousia.

In clockwise order:

Top right appears to be two back-to-back Melusine with fish tails. It is the emblem of the Maison Gardiennage.
Center right is an anchor being wrapped by a vine with two roses and thorns, the emblem of Spina di Rosula.
Bottom right is the emblem found on the energy blocks used by the Clockwork Mekas.
Bottom left is a bird within a gear. It has a winding key in its back and is wearing a top hat, the emblem of The Steambird and a depiction of Sir Arthur.
Center left is a three-headed wolf-shaped emblem, the emblem of the Fortress of Meropide.
Top left are two stylized scales and the personal seal of Furina, the former Hydro Archon before her abdication following the events of Masquerade of the Guilty.
Character Cards
Lyney's Character Card
Lyney's Character Card
Lynette's Character Card
Lynette's Character Card
Neuvillette's Character Card
Neuvillette's Character Card
Economy
The Steambird is a newspaper that hails from Fontaine. They have readers and writers all over Teyvat. Currently, there are two known columns affiliated the newspaper; "All Things Astrological," overseen by Mona,[17] and "Teyvat Food Notes," overseen by Long Erjun. Besides the columnists, Charlotte is a reporter covering the news.[18]

Fontaine also exports their technology to other nations. Due to the intense mechanical nature of Fontaine's products, there appears to be a lack of organic items, which are in high demand.

Lumidouce Harbor primarily handle's the nation's exports and imports[19]; while some ships are present in Romaritime Harbor and even has an Aquabus line dedicated to it, to the south is the Girdle of the Sands, a vast desert with few travelers and many dangers.

Fashion
There seems to be a clear divide in clothing styles between the Court of Fontaine Region, which has more formal and decorated clothing, and the more simple and practical wear of Fleuve Cendre and other areas outside of the city.

Most non-uniform clothing — both men's and women's — come in a variety of color schemes. These tend to feature various shades of blue, purple, yellow, green, red, and brown. In some cases, outfit recolors slightly change the pattern of certain aspects of the outfit (see Aurele vs. Cava or Antila vs. Eloffe).

Boys' clothing seems to be inspired by the kind popular in Europe between the late 19th and early 20th centuries. The first and second versions of adult men's attire, however, are more similar to those from the mid-to-late 19th century, as that was when that style of cravat/bow-tie and waistcoat were most popular. The third version is closest in style to the late 18th to early 19th century, due to the jabot and longer coat being hallmarks of the period.

The second and fourth versions of women's attire seem to be inspired by the fashion of the Belle Époque, which is characterized by decorated hats, lace blouses, and straight falling skirts. The first, third, and sixth, in contrast, are less based directly on historical dress and more on modern subcultures that take inspiration from history, such as steampunk and lolita.

Additionally, maid outfits in Fontaine (Argalia) are identical to those in Mondstadt (Hillie). This makes Fontaine the only other region where this style of maid outfit is considered standard.

Festivals and Holidays
The Iridescence Tour is described as a famous music festival that originates from Fontaine and run by several organizers.[20]

The Fontinalia Festival is a festival to commemorate the Lochknights' search for the Oceanids and welcoming of Egeria to Fontaine as its Hydro Archon. The Fontinalia Film Festival, which was added to the festivities, was organized by the Fontaine Film Association to introduce the art of cinematography to the public. People may submit films to be evaluated, and the entry with the highest score will be given the "Furina Award" by the Fontaine Film Association, although nobody changed the award's name following the events of Masquerade of the Guilty.[21]

Furina's birthday is a public holiday in Fontaine; although no longer the ruling Hydro Archon, her birthday remains a holiday.[22]

Languages
In the Inazuma World Quest Series Tatara Tales, Xavier states that people in Fontaine use the phrase c'est la vie, which is French for "That's life."

Politics
According to Yanfei, Fontaine has a notoriously complex law system in place.[23] This was partially in part due to the Hydro Archon Furina prior to her abdication, who lived for the spectacle of the courtroom: seeking to judge the other gods, but knowing not to make an enemy of the divine. Individuals from Fontaine appear to be judged by the court for their responsibilities when performing tasks. According to Patrice, the tiniest infractions are considered crimes that can come with severe punishment, even if it may seem trivial in other nations. For example, it is illegal to eat ketchup on its own, as it must always be served as a condiment,[24] and even eating cake meant for the Archon can be punishable with jail time.[25] Poaching is considered a serious crime, punishable by death.[16] However, the death sentence is rarely carried out; only one instance of it had occurred since the creation of the Oratrice, where it was used against the throne of the Hydro Archon.

The Maison Gestion handles administrative work, such as archiving cases and processing papers. Many of their workers are generally overworked to the point that they are prone to fainting from exhaustion.

Before a trial begins, the accused are given the option to face a Champion Duelist instead to maintain their honor. However, the Champion Duelists are some of the strongest fighters in the nation, and thus it is very rare for one to prevail over them. The duel lasts until the accused gives up, though as many tend to maintain their honor to the very end; this option is usually the equivalent to the death sentence. The court is maintained by Neuvillette, who originally used the Oratrice Mecanique d'Analyse Cardinale to assist him in his judgement, though he no longer does so following its deactivation.

The Fortress of Meropide is where the sentenced are held after a trial, and while it has a notorious reputation among the law-abiding, the prison itself is actually an independent entity outside of the Court of Fontaine's jurisdiction with its own rules and regulations, with Wriothesley serving as its administrator.

The God of Justice is not the one of the original Seven. The previous Hydro Archon, now deceased, sent the Oceanids across Teyvat to spy on the people to connect them to the world. After her passing, the Oceanids refused to acknowledge the God of Justice as the Hydro Archon and continue on with their former master's request.

Following the death of Focalors, the throne of the Hydro Archon, and the disabling of the Oratrice, all related duties to the position are now handled by Neuvillette, the Hydro Dragon Sovereign.

Military
Around the time of the cataclysm, the Narzissenkreuz Institute seems to have taken part in protecting the people of Fontaine and/or the whole of Teyvat, with its Director and Vice Director dying while joining the fight to stop the cataclysm.[26] After their deaths, some of the surviving members decided to "protect the realm" by joining the Marechaussee Phantom or the Special Security and Surveillance Patrol.[26]

Apart from the Gardes—human law enforcement officials—the Clockwork Meka also serve as the primary force to minimize human casualties, known as Gardemeks. Clockwork Meka can also be bought by the rich and/or influential, though many others have fallen into the hands of criminals and others violently malfunctioning.

During the cataclysm, Fontaine also had an active navy known as the Fontaine Armada that also protected the nation; it is not known if a navy exists in the present day. The Fontaine Armada was pursuing Elynas, a great beast that had appeared during this time and caused severe pollution to the land and sea. The armada was tasked with stopping Elynas, following its path while attracting many abyssal sea creatures along the way, which sank several ships. By the time they reached Elynas, what was left of the fleet was likely destroyed. It is mentioned that a fleet still exists, though it has yet to appear in-game.[27]

Fontaine/History
The Old World
Main article: Timeline § The Old World
During the Seven Sovereigns' era, the Primordial Sea was located on the surface of the world. Most of Teyvat's lifeforms originate from the Primordial Sea due to its unique properties.[1]
Legend says that the Dragon of Water, one of the Seven Sovereigns, once resided in Fontaine.[2] It is said to be the "beating heart" that ruled over the Primordial Sea.[3]
Hydro Vishaps believe that the Primordial Sea originally had a composition similar to that of blood, and that life originating from the Primordial Sea evolved into different, individual forms by developing blood vessels to keep the waters of the Primordial Sea within themselves. (Whether this belief is held by other Vishap species has not been determined.)[3]
After arriving in this world, the Primordial One takes a portion of each of the Seven Sovereigns' elemental Authorities.[4] The Sovereigns go to war against the Primordial One, but are eventually defeated.[5] Sometime following its defeat, the original Dragon of Water withers away.[6]
The New World
Main article: Timeline § The New World
According to the Oceanids, Egeria is created as the Primordial Sea's new heart by the Shade of Life, a divine envoy and one of the Primordial One's Four Shades. Despite being created by a "ruler of humans," Egeria is created entirely from material originating from Teyvat.[3]
Towards the end of the "first era" — likely the era established after the Primordial One's rise to power — humanity begins to covet things that belongs to Celestia and attempt to break away from their fates.[7]
The people are eventually punished by having their cities destroyed by tsunamis and then buried underwater after 100 days of rainfall, which "drowned all sin and arrogation" and forces humanity to rebuild civilization all over again.[7]
Oceanids
According to legend, the first Oceanid is born after Egeria sheds the "first tear," which later gives birth to all other Oceanids. Egeria bestows a task to the Oceanids "to seek an understanding of the diverse array of species and to love every creature."[8]
To fulfill Egeria's desire to connect everyone in the world, the Oceanids disperse across the waters of Teyvat to act as "spies." However, Rhodeia of Loch denies any ulterior motive on Egeria's part.[9]
Some Oceanids soon desire to live on the surface, having seen and envied human life. Not wanting to refuse her followers, Egeria decides to fulfill their request by taking water from the Primordial Sea and inserting it into the Oceanids' "blood" vessels, thus creating humanoid forms for them to walk on land.[10]
Celestia deems Egeria's "act of life" a sin and sentences her to be sealed for her crimes. At some point, Egeria and the Fontainians learn of a prophecy claiming that eventually, the people of Fontaine will be dissolved and turned back into their original forms.[10]
The Archon War (?–2000 years ago)
Main article: Timeline § The Archon War (?–2000 years ago)
In Fontaine, no true civilization is built for a long time — long enough that Gurabad in Sumeru rose and fell — until Remus arrives on Meropis and teaches the people there how to build houses, farm, and appreciate the arts, especially music. He conquers the other islands in the region, forces the "great dragon beneath the abyssal depths" to yield to him, and establishes the civilization knows as Remuria.[11]
Remus believes that so long as the "harmonious symphony of prosperity" continues to play, Remuria will prosper forever. He sets about perfecting his civilization, paying particular attention to his capital city, Capitolium.[7]
Remuria is prophesied to face "the most utter destruction" and its peoples to return to the primordial sea.[7]
Hoping to make Remuria's peoples escape the flood, he mixes the primordial water with an immortal stone to create a Golden Ichor who would contain the souls and minds of his peoples and places this Ichor full of souls into Golems, and tries to replace the entire Primordial Water with his golden Ichor.[7]
To escape the prophecy, Remus aims to eliminate all which might bring about such destruction or who does not accept his rules: Lochfolks, Vishaps, Barbarians.[12]
Barbarians and Vishaps eventually start a rebellion under the leadership of the Dragon Scylla against Remus and his golem army and golden troupe.[13]
Remus eventually realizes his wrongs while Remuria is being destroyed and gives out his final orders, attempting to restore peace back to Remuria.[14]
The Harmost Boethius sees his retreat as a betrayal, steals the golden Ichor and seals the Dragon Scylla with it.[14]
Remuria and its peoples are swept away by the Abyss at the same time the Dragon is sealed.[15] The golden Ichor is eventually corroded by the Primordial Sea and the survivors turn back into "Barbarism and Annihilation".[16]
After Remuria is destroyed by conflicts and rebellions, Celestia commands Egeria to return from her primeval prison to take over Remus' position and rule Fontaine.[17]
Egeria returns to Fontaine and gathers the survivors, mediating between their feuds, and instructs them to establish new cities around flowing springs, thus commencing an era guided by law which endures to the present day.[7] She is awarded a Gnosis,[3] ascends as the Hydro Archon, and becomes one of The Seven.[18]
Post-Archon War (2000–500 years ago)
2000 years ago — The Archon War comes to an end as the final divine seat in Celestia is claimed, cementing the positions of The Seven's original members.[19][20] Defeated gods who refused to live under The Seven's rule fled to islands in the Dark Sea, where they became evil gods.[21]
Egeria exiles all of the criminals from her nation, who live in misery as they are shunned by society.[22]
Eventually, some of these criminals beg for forgiveness, which Egeria heard through the waters. Egeria grants their wish for redemption, ordering them to guard her secret — the entrance to the Primordial Sea — beneath the waves. This results in the construction of the Fortress of Meropide, where the prisoners live and guard the path to the Primordial Sea. However, this secret would eventually become forgotten over time.[22]
Pre-Cataclysm (>500 years ago)
Main article: Timeline § Pre-Cataclysm (>500 years ago)
While knowing she could not make an enemy of the divine, Egeria did not want harm to befall her followers because of the prophecy. She assigned Focalors, one of her Oceanid followers, to be her successor, hoping that she would be able to concoct a plan to deceive Celestia.[23]
The Fleuvre Cendre, ruled by the outlaw Eduardo Baker, runs afoul of the bureaucracy of the Court of Fontaine; it is raided by the Maison Gardiennage and its leaders arrested. Eduardo is sentenced to exile in the Great Red Sand.
The Siege of Poisson — While being led to exile, Eduardo is freed by his henchmen and flees to Poisson, taking the Maison Gardiennage personnel who had been escorting him as hostages. Poisson is razed in the ensuing battle between Eduardo's faction and the Gardes, resulting in the deaths of many of its residents. The mayor of Poisson, Renault de Petrichor, likely died in the siege.
In the aftermath of the siege, Renault's son, Rene de Petrichor, and Eduardo's son, Jakob Baker, are sent to the Narzissenkreuz Institute, where they befriend Alain and Mary-Ann.
The Cataclysm (500 years ago)
Main article: Timeline § The CataclysmThe Cataclysm (500 years ago)
500 years ago ― Egeria dies and Focalors takes over. Due to differences in ideology between Egeria and Focalors, the Oceanids refuse to obey Focalors and go on self-imposed exiles from Fontaine.[9][24]
The director of the Narzissenkreuz Institute, Lyris, who was herself an Oceanid, also disappears.
The great beast Elynas appears in Fontaine, spreading severe pollution to the land and sea. Basil Elton, vice-director of the Institute and former Admiral of the Fontaine Navy, comes out of retirement to fight against the threat. The Fontaine Armada set off for what would be their final battle; for 35 days it pursued Elynas, all the while attracting monsters from the Abyss. After finally catching up to the beast, the armada slammed into him, which destroyed the ship and killed all its crew while also mortally wounding Elynas.
Elynas eventually dies from his wounds, but maintains his consciousness.
A massive flood later called the "first diluvian period" (or "first flood period") submerges much of Fontaine, including the Narzissenkreuz Institute. The Institute, now flooded and without a director or vice-director, officially closes; Jakob and Rene are adopted by Karl Ingold, while Alain and Mary-Ann are adopted by Emanuel Guillotin.
At some unknown point, Alain enrolls into the Institute of Natural Philosophy in pursuit of mechanical research.
Post-Cataclysm (500–100 years ago)
Main article: Timeline § Post-Cataclysm (500–100 years ago)
~499 years before the Archon Quest The Opera of Noirceur and Blancheur in Chapter IV: Act V - Masquerade of the Guilty[Assumption 1] ― Focalors avulses the "humanity" from her divine self, creating Furina. Furina was then instructed by Focalors to publicly take the mantle of the Hydro Archon as a measure towards saving Fontaine from the prophecy.
Focalors then creates and proceeds to seclude herself in the Oratrice Mecanique d'Analyse Cardinale, acting as the Oratrice's verdict-giving system. Continual trials to be held in the Opera Epiclese would allow Indemnitium—a form of power derived from people's belief—to be accumulated in the Oratrice,of which Focalors would allot a small amount to power Fontaine. The majority of the remaining power was to be stored and utilized when the people of Fontaine would hold the trial of the Hydro Archon, as stated in the prophecy.
~499 years later, she was sentenced to death via the Oratrice, and has willingly given up her full authority as the Hydro Archon to the Hydro Dragon Sovereign, thus clears the people of Fontaine from their 'Original Sin', and making them - including Furina - fully human. As the result, the Hydro Archon throne is destroyed - hence there will be no further Hydro Archons and the Oratrice is no longer can be used - and the people of Fontaine can no longer can dissolved by the Primordial Sea water.
Due to the extreme exhaustion and stress she endured for the last 499 years, Furina leaves the Palais Mermonia and Opera Epiclese, where she settles down in an apartment.[25]
? years ago
Karl, Rene, and Jakob explore the Khaenri'ahn ruins in Vourukasha Oasis and Madinat al-Nuhas, guided by the Order of Skeptics. During the trip, Jakob's weak constitution caused his health to deteriorate. Unbeknownst to Karl, Rene went behind his back and used Abyssal power to save Jakob. During this trip, they also deduce the "world-formula" from the records they found in the ruins, predicting a second flood period which would destroy Fontaine in the next few centuries.
Jakob and Rene return to Fontaine and soon discover Elynas' remains. They begin conducting secret experiments on the remains, namely by having Jakob absorb Elynas' blood. After some time, he became able to survive without eating by subsisting mainly on Elynas' flesh.
During their research into Elynas, Jakob and Rene bump into their childhood friends Alain and Mary-Ann. They are accepted into the Institute of Natural Philosophy following Alain's recommendation.
Rene begins recruiting researchers from the Institute of Natural Philosophy into a secret society he has named the Narzissenkreuz Ordo, created to help Fontaine survive the coming apocalypse that he and Jakob had predicted.
Jakob and Rene conduct a failed experiment to try to save the life of Carter Scherbius, Alain's sickly research assistant who the two had grown close to. However, the experiment goes horribly wrong and Carter is left in a semi-conscious state with the tissues of his body destroyed, leading Alain to cut off ties with them.
Some time after the split, the Guillotin siblings become members of the Marechaussee Phantom. Alain creates a mechanical assistant prototype and names it Seymour, tasking to always accompany and protect Mary-Ann.
Lyris returns to Fontaine, although she spends her days alone in the remains of the Narzissenkreuz Institute longing for the past. Rene and Jakob eventually find her and convince her to join the Ordo.
Rene decides to become "the first subject" of his radical experimentation and have his personality removed, using the Holy Blade of Narzissenkreuz alongside Lyris' purified essence to dissolve himself into a pure base personality for the gestalt. However, the ritual was a failure, and Rene is almost dissolved completely into the pure waters, only partially saved by Jakob through some unspecified method.
Jakob takes over as the de-facto leader of the Ordo. During this time, the construction of the Tower of Ipsissimus, the Ordo's base of operations, is finally completed.
Jakob eventually creates a Hydro Tulpa to store Rene's disembodied consciousness, using Lyris’ essence, Alain's pocketwatch and Carter's corrupted remains as the basis for his body. He names the new body "Narzissenkreuz," and the newly reborn Rene returns to leadership at the Ordo.
Narzissenkreuz then uses what remained of Carter's body to create Caterpillar, a hilichurl endowed with sentience. He also teaches Caterpillar human speech.
Emanuel Guillotin is assigned to investigate the Ordo. However, he, along with the Champion Duelist Marfisa, are ambushed and absorbed by Narzissenkreuz. From absorbing their memories, Narzissenkreuz learns that the Court of Fontaine is hot on the Ordo's trail.
~400 years ago — Narzissenkreuz orders Jakob, Caterpillar, and Lyris to enter Elynas' remains, a ploy to draw the attention of the Marechaussee Hunters away from himself. Mary-Ann and Seymour are among those sent to Elynas to arrest the Ordo members.
During the battle, someone triggers an explosion which causes multiple human casualties and damage to Elynas' remains. Mary-Ann is fatally wounded and, for reasons unknown, has her personality absorbed by Lyris. Seymour is also heavily damaged. Jakob, however, survives the incident.
The Melusines are born from the wounds in Elynas' remains, caused by the shrapnel of destroyed clockwork meka flying through the air from the explosion and piercing through its body.
Narzissenkreuz falls into the Primordial Sea hidden beneath the Tower of Ipsissimus.
Caterpillar is found guilty of being an accessory to Narzissenkreuz's schemes and imprisoned in the Fortress of Meropide.
~400 years ago — Neuvillette is instated as the Iudex or Chief Justice of the Court of Fontaine.
The newly appointed Chief Justice of Fontaine brings the Melusines from Elynas into the rest of Fontaine for the first time. However, Fontanians were hesitant to accept Melusines into their society, believing them to be creatures of calamity due to an increase in "strange incidents," coupled with Neuvillette having just been appointed as the Iudex.
Carole is one of the first Melusines to live among humans in Fontaine. She worked alongside the then-leader of the Special Security and Surveillance Patrol, Vautrin, in order to foster goodwill and cooperation between the two species, in spite of the distrust towards the Melusines at the time.
5 years later, Neuvillette awarded Carole and Vautrin with the Medal of Peace for their hard work in developing the relationship between Fontainians and the Melusines. However, not long after, a group of hardliners opposed to Neuvillette, including Thibert and Suavegothe, committed a murder and successfully lured Carole to the crime scene. They then framed her for the murder and incited a crowd of people into ordering her detention, resulting in chaos between the Gardes and the mob. As a result, Carole committed suicide to pacify the situation. Vautrin subsequently became enraged by her needless self-sacrifice and sought revenge on the hardliners, killing them to exact his own form of justice. Neuvillette was likewise upset at the turn of events.
After being exiled to the Fortress of Meropide, Vautrin became a model prisoner and established the Mutual Aid Society, which used a design similar to Vautrin's Medal of Peace as their badge for the next 400 years.
400 years later, the Melusine Kiara would have a similar incident where someone threatened her, prompting Neuvillette to personally investigate to ensure an incident would not happen again. Kiara, who was kept inside the Palais Mermonia for her own safety, had a dream where she encountered Carole, who remarked that she was delighted to see the Melusines' dreams of living peacefully with humans come to fruition.
? years ago — Alain leaves the Marechaussee Phantom and establishes the Fontaine Research Institute of Kinetic Energy Engineering.
Recent Past (<100 years ago)
"The Two Musketeers Incident" - An assassin hired by Morris murdered Elisa to cover up his illegitimate relationship with her. This murder was witnessed by their children - Baptiste and Veronique - leading them to seek revenge against Morris. Twenty years later, Baptiste would pen "The Two Musketeers," a novel-turned-biography, while Veronique had trained to become a musketeer herself.
? years ago ― Wriothesley is adopted by a seemingly great couple who have also adopted other children.
Later, Wriothesley would learn that the couple had only raised him, as well as their other adopted children, for the purposes of human trafficking; the children who were sold were never seen again, and those who didn't sell were simply "disposed of."
Upon learning the truth behind his "adoptive parents," he killed them and set all of the remaining children free. He was then convicted for his crimes, and sent to the Fortress of Meropide.[26]
~3 years ago ― Callas, the president of Spina di Rosula, is accused of murdering Jacques, a Sinthe seller turned double agent who Callas had been working with behind the scenes to put an end to the Sinthe trade. In actuality, an unknown assassin hired by Marcel had shot and killed Jacques, and was in turn killed by Callas. Marcel then dissolved the assassin's body with water from the Primordial Sea, erasing any evidence that would have exonerated Callas.
Rather than risk Navia's safety by testifying agains the Sinthe producers in court and provoking them, Callas chose to maintain his innocence through a duel rather than go through a trial. Before dying at the hands of Clorinde, he told her to take care of Navia, a final request which she accepted.[27]
? months ago ― The Kamera is redeveloped[Assumption 2] in Fontaine and spreads to other nations.[28]